# Why a Shed?
Men have particular needs and ways of doing things. They like to be productive and to contribute to those around them but they still like to talk and often, to be doing something at the same time. The Shed is a space for talk and fun. Practical skills and knowledge can be exchanged. Something useful can be going on that will contribute to a local community need, while the participants of the Shed experience an improvement in their own well being by keeping physically, mentally and socially active. There are benefits all round.

# Who is the Shed for?
Men’s Sheds are open to all men regardless of age, background or ability. It is a place where you can share your skills and knowledge with others, learn new skills and develop new friendships. New members are always welcome and can be assured that there is something of interest for everyone, as the men have ownership of the projects and decide their own program of events.

# Why is this important?
Men are more likely to be unemployed and isolated than women; they have poorer health outcomes and are more likely to die from suicide and other preventable causes. They are less likely to talk about their issues and concerns. One of the reasons for the poorer health outcomes has been attributed to certain male subgroups displaying limited help-seeking behaviors (Smith, 2007). That is, male socialization, masculinity, social connectedness and work-life balance playing a complex interaction that significantly impacts on males accessing mainstream health services, particularly when they are ill (Galdas et al., 2005).

Further, an attitude of self-reliance, combined with barriers of access to preventive health care and public health education, contribute to the poorer health of rural men. Age also impacts delays in help seeking; males in the 15–54 year age group are significantly less likely to attend a doctor than females, leading to lower use of health services, lack of interest in preventing illness, and disengagement with traditional health services which many times continues for life. Men's Sheds are an important existing community structure whose community development philosophy can potentially be tapped into as a vehicle for the delivery of preventative health services. The potential of Men's Sheds as part of a wider suite of men's health initiatives is aligned with the international focus on solving the gendered health inequities that become apparent when the social determinants of health are exposed. There is a need to recognize successful community initiatives and build on them where possible with ongoing support.
